# Professional Development Request System
A system developed using Google Apps Script to help teachers at The Pingry School request and expedite approval of funding for professional development experiences.

The below description is relevant more when the code is in use, but it still provides a description of the two JavaScript code scripts present in this repo. 

Inside the project folder, there are currently four folders. Inside the folder labelled “Important Files,” you will find the Google Form for faculty to submit their Pro Grow requests. Two other folders, “Pending Responses” and “Completed Responses,” contain documents with responses that need to be approved and responses that have received all of their signatures respectively. The final folder contains all of the supplemental files that faculty submitted while filling out the forms.  
We have written two different scripts. 

One of them, which is attached to the form, is called “Professional Development Form Script" (FormCode.gs). Every time a new form is submitted, the script takes the faculty member’s responses and puts them into a new Google Document. It does this by copying the template document (also in the “Important Files” folder with the name “Professional Development Approval Form - Template”) and replacing all of the bracketed text with the question responses. It makes all of the people that need to review the request, including the Dean of Faculty, editors of the document and sends a notification email to each one with the necessary link (the wording of this email can be changed). The script also checks to make sure that the dates submitted to the form were valid, meaning that the start date is either before or the same date as the end date. If the end date submitted is before the start date, the script will send an email to the person who submitted the form letting them know that they need to submit the form again with valid dates. 

The other, which can be found in the “Important Files” folder, is called “Folder Scanner Script" (FolderScannerCode.gs). It is currently set to run every day between 6-7 AM, but will later be set to only run on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. It goes through all of the documents in the “Pending Responses” folder and checks to see if each one has all of their signatures. If yes, it moves the document to the “Completed Responses” folder and sends an email to the Head of School with a link to the doc. If not, it checks to see if the document was created more than 3 days ago (this number can be changed if needed). If that is true, it sends emails to those who still need to sign off on the request. 

Both of these scripts rely on a Google Spreadsheet of information with the names, emails, and positions of people who could potentially be asked to review Pro Grow requests if the form submitter checks certain Division or Department boxes. That spreadsheet is in the “Important Files” folder, and is called “Faculty Table.” The information on this spreadsheet must be correct or else the scripts won’t function correctly. If that info were to change, then the spreadsheet would also need to be changed manually. You can also add rows to the spreadsheet too, and our scripts will be able to adapt to that. Otherwise, the formatting of the spreadsheet should be left alone. Specifically, the items in the “Category” column must have the exact same spelling as the listings under “Division” and “Department” in the form.  

Project developed by Samantha Burak and Dillon Shu as interns of the Pingry School Tech Department in Summer 2019.
